In Jerusalem.
A committee meeting in the Knesset,
Israel's parliament, was disrupted
by protesters.
They included relatives of Israelis
still being held hostage in the Gaza
Strip.
One man pushed his way inside the
room and yelled, it can't go on
like this at lawmakers.
You won't sit here while our
children die over there.
The relatives of the remaining 100
plus hostages have become a powerful
pressure group in Israel.
They're fearful that the Israeli
authorities are not doing enough to
bring them home.
Last month, Israeli troops
accidentally shot and killed three
hostages in Gaza.
Since then, officials have signaled
a shift in strategy, but it's
unclear what exactly that means.
Israeli troops continue to push into
the southern Gaza city of Khan
Yunis, but the high ranking
officials who make up the country's
war cabinet appear to be more
divided than ever.
To understand all of this, we called
Ehud Aron.
He was a foreign policy aide to
former Prime Minister Ehud Barak,
and he is an assistant professor in
international relations at Haifa
University.
Interrupting a committee meeting in
parliament seems quite bold.
How much support does this protest
movement have in Israel?
I think they have some support.
You know, all Israelis, I guess, are
sympathetic to the situation but are
divided on what needs to be done.
People who are closer to the current
government or supported prefer
to go ahead with the military
operation in Gaza, even if it means,
in practice, leaving the hostages,
you know, in Hamas jails.
So so the people who have been
demonstrating for the
hostages to come home, how exactly
do they want the government or
military to make that happen?
They want the government to reach an
agreement with Hamas.
One problem with that is that
it would probably place severe
limitations on Israel's ability
to operate militarily in
Gaza.
So it's seen as an either or bring
the hostages home or continue
the campaign against Hamas.
Yes, it is in fact the military
pressure that can release the
hostages.
Most commentators, and definitely
the families, feel that it is
indeed an either or situation.
The Israeli government says that
it's shifting to a less intense
offensive strategy in Gaza.
What does that mean?
It means stopping what is called
an Israeli maneuver, moving
quickly and trying to capture more
territory, holding the positions
as they are now, and
conducting raids on
some targets in southern Gaza.
Like the operation that's unfolding
in Honduras.
I want to I want to ask you now
about the War Cabinet that Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu created
after the October 7th attack
to manage this campaign in Gaza.
One of its members, Gadi Eisenkot,
has been speaking out about the
divisions inside of the War Cabinet.
He's a former IDF chief of staff,
and his son and his nephew
have died in this war.
What has he been saying?
So he's somewhat surprised.
The public, in a very candid
interview in which he said we
should bring the hostages back
first. This is coupled with leaks
from the cabinet, probably from him,
that he's extending the war
to a serious political force.
Um, Eisenkot has called
for elections, which
in Israel's system requires a
majority vote in the Knesset to
to trigger.
Um. Is that more likely now
than in the past because of, I don't
know, this protest movement or these
emerging rifts within the war
cabinet.
The war in general is a huge
political risk from Netanyahu.
Israel's government's failure
to defend its citizens who respond
effectively after the attacks,
are all reasons that would lead you
to believe that there should be
political instability.
But Netanyahu still has a very
strong, tight coalition.
So this is not the immediate
end of the Netanyahu government.
So you're not anticipating an
election being called anytime soon?
Not in the immediate future.
So so if leadership did change
during the war, and, for example,
Benny Gantz, one of the ministers in
the war cabinet who's, you know,
also the leader of a of another
party, you think that
the war would come to an end?
It's hard to say, but
I think the chances will be higher
that it will end, or at least
will have clearer goals with a clear
timeline and an exit strategy.
Because guns in Eisenkot
to his partner are much more open
to the political process compared
to Netanyahu.
How have you been feeling watching
those divisions start to emerge?
I generally think it's a positive
thing, especially during times of
war. Multiplicity of voices
and people who challenge the
mainstream are important.
The government, in my view, did not
set realistic world war aims
and did not include the political
process with the Palestinians or
political goal at the end.
Ehud Iran was a foreign policy
aide to former Prime Minister Ehud
Barak, and is an associate professor
in international relations at Haifa
University in Israel.
Ehud. Thank you.
So much.
Thank you so much for inviting me.
Take care.